

=== PAGE IDX 110 ===

 
74  © NaCCA, Ministry of Education 2021 
 
STRAND 4: FORCES AND ENERGY 
SUB-STRAND 4: FORCE AND MOTION 
 
 
CONTENT STANDARD INDICATORS AND EXEMPLARS CORE COMPETENCIES 
B8/JHS2.4.4.1 
Demonstrate the 
production of magnet, 
domestic and 
industrial application 
of Magnetic force and 
its relationship with 
Newton’s Second law of 
motion and in everyday  
life 
B8/JHS2.4.4.1.1 Demonstrate simple ways of making magnets 
and show how magnetic force can be applied in domestic and 
industrial activities 
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving (CP), 
Communication and Collaboration (CC),  
Creativity and Innovation (CI), Digital Literacy 
(DL) 
Exemplars: 
1. Produce magnets (using magnetic materials such as pieces of iron and 
bar magnet; and electricity). 
2. Demonstrate some application of magnetic force in domestic and 
industrial activities (E. g. compass, alarms, loud speakers, etc.). 
 
 
 
3. Explore other industrial and domestic applications of magnetic force 
and present findings. 
 
CI 5.1: Examine alternatives in creating new 
things 
CP 5.6: Demonstrate a thorough 
understanding of a generalised concept and 
facts specific to a task or situation 
 CI 5.1: Examine alternatives in creating new 
things 
 CC 8.1: Speak clearly and explain ideas. Share 
a narrative or extended answer while speaking  
to a group 
 
B8/JHS2.4.4.1.2. Explain the relationship between magnetic 
force and Newton’s Second Law of motion; and show the law’s 
application to life. 
Exemplars: 
1. Explain Newton’s Second Law of motion with examples from daily life. 
 
2. Perform an experiment to show the relationship between force and 
motion using magnetic force, and the principle of Newton’s Second 
Law of Motion. 
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving 
(CP) 
  
CP 5.2: Analyse and make distinct judgement 
about viewpoints expressed in an argument 
 CP 5.2: Analyse and make distinct judgement 
about viewpoints expressed in an argument 
 

=== PAGE IDX 111 ===

 
75  © NaCCA, Ministry of Education 2021 
 
 
 
 
CONTENT STANDARD INDICATORS AND EXEMPLARS CORE COMPETENCIES 
B8/JHS2.4.4.2 
Demonstrate 
understanding of 
complex machines and 
how they work 
B8/JHS2.4.4.2.1 Identify complex machines and describe their 
functions in life 
 
 
Exemplars: 
1. Recap what simple machines are from B7/JHS1.4.4.2.1 
 
 
2. Explain what complex machines are and show how different they 
are from simple machines. 
 
3. Identify simple machine in complex machines. 
 
 
4. Explain how the functions of a complex machine can improve the 
quality of life. 
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving (CP), 
Communication and Collaboration (CC),  
Creativity and Innovation (CI), Digital Literacy 
(DL) 
  
CC 8.2: Explain ideas in a clear order with  
relevant details, using correct construction and 
structure of speech 
 CP 5.8: Identify and prove misconceptions  
about a generalised concept or fact specific to a 
task or situation 
 CP 5.9: Identify and explain a confusion,  
uncertainty, or a contradiction surrounding an 
event 
 CC 8.2: Explain ideas in a clear order with  
relevant details, using correct construction and 
structure of speech 
 