

=== PAGE IDX 120 ===

 
84  © NaCCA, Ministry of Education 2021 
 
STRAND 5: HUMANS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 
SUB-STRAND 5: UNDERSTANDING THE ENVIRONMENT 
 
 
 
CONTENT STANDARD INDICATORS AND EXEMPLARS CORE COMPETENCIES 
B8/JHS2.5.5.1 
Demonstrate 
understanding of the 
differences among soils, 
plant roots, stems, 
leaves, flowers, and fruits 
of plants in the different 
environments 
B8/JHS2.5.5.1.1 Discuss physical properties of soils 
 
 
 
Exemplars: 
1. Collect and describe different samples of soils (sandy soil, loamy soil, 
clay soil, etc.) from the school garden and the community. 
 
2. Discuss how each soil type retains water and supports the root 
system of plants. 
 
 
 
 
3. Conduct an experiment to demonstrate how different soil types 
retain water to support the root system of crops. 
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving (CP), 
Communication and Collaboration (CC), 
Creativity and Innovation (CI), Digital Literacy 
(DL) 
 
CP 5.1: Ability to combine information 
and ideas from several sources to reach a 
conclusion 
CP 5.1: Ability to combine information 
and ideas from several sources to reach a 
conclusion 
CC 8.2: Explain ideas in a clear order with  
relevant details, using correct construction and 
structure of speech 
 

=== PAGE IDX 121 ===

 
85  © NaCCA, Ministry of Education 2021 
 
 
CONTENT STANDARD INDICATORS AND EXEMPLARS CORE COMPETENCIES 
 
B8/JHS2.5.5.1.2 Analyse the physical properties of soils and 
soil water content and demonstrate their importance in 
crop production. 
 
Exemplars: 
1. Examine and discuss the different physical properties of each soil type 
and how these properties help support crop production. 
 
2. Observe and describe the growth of different plants on different soil 
types. 
 
 
 
3. Demonstrate how plants absorb water and nutrients from the soil 
(osmosis). 
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving (CP), 
Communication and Collaboration (CC),  
Creativity and Innovation (CI), Digital Literacy 
(DL) 
 
CP 5.5: Effectively evaluate the success of  
solutions used in an attempt to solve a complex 
problem 
CP 5.3: Create simple logic trees to think  
through problems 
CC 8.1: Speak clearly and explain ideas. Share  
a narrative or extended answer while speaking  
to a group 
CI 5.5: Ability to try new alternatives and 
different approaches 
CP 5.1: Ability to combine information from 
several sources to reach a conclusion 
B8/JHS2.5.6.1 
Recognise the different 
types of rocks as origin 
of different types of 
soils 
B8/JHS2.5.6.1.1 Observe and describe different types of rocks as 
origins of soils. 
Exemplars: 
 
1. Identify different labelled samples of rocks presented in the 
classroom/ laboratory. 
2. Describe the visible characteristics of each rock. 
 
3. Collect samples of rocks from around the community and label 
them rock identification guide and compare them with the labelled 
laboratory samples in Exemplar 1. 
4. Research and report the stages of weathering of rocks to form soil. 
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving (CP) 
Creativity and Innovation (CI) 
 
 
CP 6.3: Ability to select alternative(s) that 
adequately meet selected criteria 
CI 6.8: Recognise and generalise information 
and experience; search for trends and patterns 
CP 6.4: Ability to identify important and 
appropriate criteria and use them to evaluate 
alternatives 
CP 6.3: Identify important and appropriate 
alternatives 
 