

=== PAGE IDX 115 ===

 
79  © NaCCA, Ministry of Education 2021 
 
 
CONTENT 
STANDARD INDICATORS AND EXEMPLARS CORE COMPETENCIES 
 
B8/JHS2. 5.2.1.2. Analyse the risk factors of 
communicable diseases 
 
Exemplars: 
1. Search for information that is associated with communicable 
diseases. 
2. Create awareness about risk factors of communicable  
diseases such as hepatitis, HIV, measles and others in order 
to prevent the diseases in their schools and communities. 
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving (CP), 
Communication and Collaboration (CC), Creativity 
and Innovation (CI), Digital Literacy (DL) 
 
DL 5.5: Evaluate the quality and validity of information 
 
CC 8.3: Apply appropriate diction, and structure 
sentences correctly for narrative,  persuasive, 
imaginative and expository purposes 
 
 

=== PAGE IDX 116 ===

 
80  © NaCCA, Ministry of Education 2021 
 
  
 
 
 
CONTENT 
STANDARD INDICATORS AND EXEMPLARS CORE COMPETENCIES 
B8/JHS2.5.2.2 
Demonstrate 
knowledge of the 
nature of selected 
bacterial diseases of 
humans, their causes, 
symptoms, effects and 
prevention 
B8/JHS2. 5.2.2.1 Explain the nature of bacterial 
diseases with special emphasis on food 
poisoning/gonorrhoea/ meningitis their causes, 
symptoms, effects on humans and prevention 
Exemplars: 
1. Discuss the nature of bacterial diseases. 
 
2. Search for information and make presentations on food 
poisoning, gonorrhoea, and meningitis diseases their mode 
of transmission from person to person, community to 
community and from country to country. 
3. Describe the symptoms, effects and prevention of food 
poisoning,, gonorrhoea, and meningitis diseases. 
 
4. Describe the role of individuals, community members and  
government in managing food poisoning, gonorrhoea, and  
meningitis diseases. 
5. Design and produce a poster to educate their community  
members on the incidence and control of named b acterial 
diseases: food poisoning, gonorrhoea, and meningitis. 
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving (CP),  
Communication and Collaboration (CC), Creativity 
and Innovation (CI), Digital Literacy (DL) 
 
 
CP 5.1: Ability to combine information and ideas from 
several sources to reach a conclusion 
DL 5.1: Ability to ascertain when information is 
needed and be able to identify, locate, evaluate and 
effectively use it to solve a problem 
 
CC 8.1: Speak clearly and explain ideas. Share a 
narrative or extended answer while speaking to a 
group 
CC 8.1: Speak clearly and explain ideas. Share a 
narrative or extended answer while speaking to a 
group 
CI 5.2: Ability to merge simple/complex ideas to  
create novel situations or thing 
 